# bikesharing
## Analysis of August 2019 Citibike usage
### Purpose of Analysis
#### The purpose of this analysis was to use Tableau to visualize data provided by Citibike. Information provided included number of riders, number of riders by type, trip duration, gender, and more information. There are seven (7) datapoints evaluated: Checkout Times for Users, Checkout Times by Gender, Trips by Weekday for Each Hour, Trips by Gender (Weekday per Hour), User Trips by Gender by Weekday, Top Starting Locations, and Gender Breakdown of Riders
### Results of Analysist
#### The data shows that the vast majority of riders are less than 20 minutes, with 146,752 rides lasting 5 minutes. Additionally, it shows that men and women have similar trip duration times. The data shows that 8AM, 5PM, and 6PM are the busiest hours, and that Thursday is the busiest day. It also shows that there is much higher usage during the day on the weekend. The data shows that female usage is fairly evenly distributed, while the male users exaserbate the overall trend of increased usage at 8AM, 5PM and 6PM. The number of customers is roughly even between men and women, whereas the vast majority of subscribers are men. The highest starting points are in Manhatten, and the further away you get from Manhatten, the fewer users have a starting point. Finally, the vast majority of users are male, nearly 2/3 of the users.
### Summary
#### Overall, the results show that the majority of users are subscribers who have set trends and timing patterns, compared to customers who tend to be tourists have more evenly distributed usage times. A future visulization that could be benefitial is the most common ending location by starting location, as well as the most common start point by day, so you know where to have additional bikes to meet demand.
[link to dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/matthew.buck8131/viz/Module15Assignment_16737385086690/CitibankStory)
[link to additional graphics](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/matthew.buck8131/viz/PracticeModuleStory2/Story1?publish=yes)
